# Git Setup
```Git config``` is the tool to set the configurations and variables controlling git operations. It consists of three levels of configurations:
 1. System level: the highest level of the configuration which is applied to all of the users and repositories. It is stored in the `/etc/gitconfig` file or use the following command to find the path:
 ```
 $ git config --system --edit
 ```
 2. Global level: This level is a user specific level stored in the user's home directory usually located at `~/.gitconfig` or `~/.config/git/config`. Global level applies to each repository associated with the user.
 ```
 $ git config --global --edit
 ```
 3. Local level: This is a repository-specific level is located at `<repo>/.git/config`. These configs customize the git configs in that repository without affecting other users or repos.
 ```
 $ git config --local --edit
 ```
Each level overrides the values in the previous level.
You can use `git config --list` to access the complete list of variables and their current values. Some includes:
 - `user.name`: sets the name associated with your commits. To change that use
 ```
 $ git config --global user.name "username"
 ```
 use your name instead of `"username"`
 - `user.email`: Sets the email address to be associated with your commits. Use a similar command as that of above to set your email.
 - `core.editor`: Sets the default text editor for git to open when creating commit messages. To set VS Code as your default text editor use the following command:
 ```
 $ git config --global core.editor "code --wait"
 ```
 The `--wait` flag is crucial for executing the git command.
 - `diff.tool`: Sets the deff tool to be used for viewing differences between files. To set VS code as your default for generally everything first make sure that the shell command for code . is installed on your terminal. Next, run the command `git config --global --edit` to edit the global config, and add the following command:
 ```
 $ [core]
        editor = code --wait
    [diff]
        tool = vscode
    [difftool "vscode"]
        cmd = code --wait --diff $LOCAL $REMOTE
 ``` 
 If the `[core]` section is already been setup using the previous command, then just add `[diff]` and `[difftool]` sections. 
The settings of `git config` are not limited to these. To check the config level of a specific setting you may use the following command:
```
$ git config --show-origin --name-only --get-regext <setting>
```