# Git Ignor
Sometimes on your git repository there are some files that you don't want to be tracked on git, such as large data files, binary files, images, and etc. Also, you might have a file of credentials that are sensitive and not to be shared. Also, when you run a python code it might create a __pycash__ file that are not supposed to be tracked. To make the git understand to ignore these files you need to create a `.gitignore` file in your project directory.
In `.gitignore` file you can list the files that should be ignored.
Writing on `.gitignor` file requires commiting to a certain pattern. To ignore a file simply write the filename in the `.gitignore` file. You can also ignore all files with a certain extension using `*.ext` or a directory using `dir\`. To learn more about the `gitignore` patterns follow [this link](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes/gitignore)
Note: when a file is already pushed on your repository it would not be ignored even if added on `.gitignore`. First you need to delete it from the git history and then ignore it.
Usually `.gitignore` files are not built from scrach, because in any programming language, there are certain files and folders that should be ignored. As an example on the github repository on github there is a gitignore directory that contains several template files for the `.gitignore` files in different programming languages. You can find this directory [here](https://github.com/github/gitignore). When you create a new repository on Github, you can easily add the .gitignore template to your project repository.