# Viewing Your Staged an Unstaged Changes
One of the core points of using diff is to see the changes you have made in different commits and be able to compare them with each others. To that end, `git diff` is the commmand line that can be used for comparing one file in different commits.
`git diff` shows the difference in between the current unstaged version of a file and the last commited version (the last snapshot) of that. This means the difference between the working directory and the repository. The changes are shown either in green color for additions or in red color for omissions. Those lines in white are the one that remained the same.
Should you need to see the difference between staging area so far and repo, you need to use `git diff --staged` or `git diff --cached`.
If there are several files that has been changed, all of the are shown at the output of `git diff` one by one. Therefore, it is not suffecient and user freindly enough. The command line to check the changes in only one file use `git diff filename.ext` or `git diff --staged filename.ext`.
If you add vscode as your difftool and instead of diff use difftool in your command, then once commanding `git difftool` the files will be open on vscode in two different windows, one for (un)staged file, and one for the repo file.
If you want to check the difference between your files on working directory and those of a specific commit you need to add the hash id of that commit. To retain the hash id use the `git log` command and then write the command as `git difftool <hash id>`.
Note that when using `git difftool` it opens the files one by one and before openning each file it asks you whether you want it to be opened or not. To avoid this you can use `git difftool -y` command which answers a by default yes to all of the questions.