# Undoing Things
Moving and removing files are doable by Linux commands as well as git commands. 
## Removing Files
To remove a file you may type `rm filename.ext` and then commit it in case of staged files, or use `git rm` command. It is better to use git commands instead of Linux commands, because git commands once executed are staged, some of them also are recoverable, while `rm` command of Linux is not recoverable.
```
$ git rm filename.ext
```
In case of unstaged files or files that are exited in the repo `git rm` is run with no errors. If you use `git rm` on a file that is on a staged level git gives an Error to use either `--cached` or `-f`. `git rm -f filename.ext` is used in case you want to delete a file from your hard disc as well as your git repository. In case you want to keep the file on your hard disk and only remove it from your git repository, you should use `git rm --cached filename.ext`. This is spetially useful when you accidentally added a large file to your github repository.
## Moving Files
Same as removing, for moving files you can move files using Linux commands.
```
$ mkdir Foldrname
$ mv filename.ext Foldername/
$ git add filename.ext
```
In this case `git status` shows the deletition of the `filename.ext`. If you add the folder to the staging area:
```
$ git add Foldername
```
`git status` shows that the file has been renamed:
```
rename: filename.ext > Foldername/filename.ext
```
To move and rename the file instanously, you can use `git mv` command:
```
$ git mv filename.ext Foldername/
```
## Undoing Changes
There are two commands on Git that can recover your last changes:
The `git reset` or `git reset filename.ext` commands is the command for undoing your last additions or commits. 
`git checkout` is the command to move your directory to last snapshot of that. Note that this command line once executed is permanent and not recoverable.