# Viewing Commit History
We need a powerful search tool to look for commits histories. `git log` is the command which shows us all of the commits that has been made to the repo by the time of executing it. The `git log` output contains commit hash id, author of the commit, date of commitment, and several other informations. However, the information shown in the output of the `git log` might not be clear enough on what changes has exactly been made to the repo. As a result, we need another command line to provide us with more information on commits. 
```
$ git log -p -2
```
is the command line that not only provides the commit history, but also depicts every single changes that has been made through each commit. `-2` at the end of the command lines specifies that we only need to see the last two commits. You may change this to any number as you wish. It also could be added to the end of `git log` itself.
```
$ git log --stat
```
is the command line which prints out how many file were changed, and how many lines were added or removed in those files. A summary of the information also is put at the end as well.
```
$ git log --pretty=oneline
```
is the command line that prints out the commit history in the format you wish for. As as example the `oneline` format as mentioned here has a summary of the commit history being printed out in a single line.
```
$ git log --pretty=format:"%h - %an, %ar : %s"
```
Another use of `--pretty` is to format the printed output of the command history. `%h` stands for the hash id, `%an` stands for the author of that commit, `%ar` stands for the date, and finally `%s` stands for the commit message. To find out more about the characters that represent each of the `git log` components you might look at the link [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/ch00/pretty_format). Further on , you will be able to add your preferred format as an alias so it could be approachable easily.
```
$ git log --pretty=oneline --graph
```
shows a graph of how commmits were made in different branches.
```
$ git log --since="two years ago"
$ git log --since="2.weeks"
```
```
$ git log -S "string your looking for"
```
To study more of the command lines that you might be interested in using `git log` follow the link [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/ch00/limit_options)
