# Undoing Things
The point of using git is to track changes and undo them where it is necessary.
```
git commit --amend
```
Let's imagine a situation in witch you have created two files and in one of the files you are importing a function from the other one. But, once adding and commiting the files into your repository you forget to add the file that you are importing the function from. You might think you can add the file in a new commit but it wouldn't be sufficient. So now the problem with your commit is that not only the commit doesn't hold to a meaning, but also your code is broken. So later on if someone reset the git history to this commit of yours, your code wouldn't be working. In this case you can use the `git commit --amend` to modify your previous commit. Prior to using this command you need to add the missing file to the git staging area and then execute the `--amend` commit. However, in case of colaborations, this command might not be a safe option.
```
$ git commit --amend --no-edit
```
On the output of the `--amend` a new window gets open making you able to change the commit message of the previous commit. If you wish to keep the previous commit message you should add a `--no-edit` at the end.
```
$ git reset
```
This command unstages the staged files. you can also use `git reset filename.ext`
```
$ git checkout
```
Using this command line, you can reset your changes to the last snapshot of a tracked file. This is useful when you are not happy with the changing being made to a code and want to change it back to what it was before without manually undoing on keyboard.