# Version Control System
Version control system (VCS) takes te record of the changes that are made to a file(s) over the course of time. As a result, any specific version is recallable at any time.
## Local Version Control System
If you have several version of a file on your local computer, you deployed a version control system on your own. It is only accesable by you, and it is error prone as you might override or delete a file or a version mistakenly.
## Centralized Version Control System
a good example of the centralized version control system is google docs. Google doc is a centralized VCS server that is accesible to alot of people and they can write on the files at any time. The problem with this method is that if by any reason the server gets down, no body would have access to the files.
## Distributed Version Control System
In distributed VCS, all of the computers have all of the versions of the files in the project. Also, there might be a server system that contributers can commit to that server. But, note that there is no need to have an access to the remote server at all time when working on the project.
## History of Git
 - Before 2002 there were no VCS.
 - While working on the Linux project on 2002, Linus Torvalds, employed a company named BitKeeper to provide them with a version control system for their linux project.
 - On 2005, Linus Torvalds came up with his own VCS named Git with the following features:
    - high speed
    - simple design
    - strong-support for branching
    - fully distributed
    - able to handle large projects
## How Git Works
One very good way to control different versions of a file is only saving the first version and then saving changes afterwards. However, the way Git works is by saving the snapshot of the file for each versions.
Another feature of Git is that all of the operations on Git are done instantanously and locally. You may also commit the files on a central server such as Github.
Git has integrity which means that everything is checked-sum before being stored and referred later on. Check-sum is based on a hash function which produces a single hash for any input. As a result, every single version of a file is referrable by a hash value and even a small change on git changes the hash value.
Whatever action you do on Git, it is added as a version and everything is recoverable. This means that even deleting a single line in a file does not mean that it is deleted from Git.
## The Three States of the Git
For Git to control different versions of a file, there are three stages: Working Directory, Staging Area, Git Directory (Repository). Different files on the project changes between these three stages. By default the initial state of all of the files in a project is the working directory. The next step is to add these files to staging area so that at the end we can take a snapshot of them and save them on the remote repo. All of the snapshots are saved in a hidden folder on your project directory inside the .git folder.
The point of the staging area is to mark the files that we want to take a snapshot from and save them as a new version.
[](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/areas.png)
## The Git Command Line
We access the Git features through the command line on terminal. Even though there are several Git GUIs but none of them are complete.
## Git Instalation
For installing Git on different OSs use [this link](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
on mac use 
```
$ brew install git
```
After the instalation use `git --version` to make sure git is installed and working.
## Git vs Github
Git is the version control system which is a distributed system. In distributed VCS one of the computers could act as a server that is hosted by one of the Git Hosting Providers such as Github, Gitlab, bitbucket, etc.
Every person in the project can commit their changes to the server from their local repository. The repository stored on the server is called remote repository.