# Getting a Git Repository
There are in general two ways to get a git repository. You may either start tracking the project by initializing git on your local repository or clone a remote repository.
## Initializing Git Inside an Existing Repository
If you have a project directory and you want to track your project using git, change your directory to the project directory and use `git init` to initialize git. This command line makes a hidden .git folder which you can check it using `ls -a`. Within the .git folder there is a config file which keeps the local level of configurations. Also, there are description and HEAD files and folders containing refs, objects, info, hooks. Whatever the git is tracking is within this directory and by deleting this directory no longer git will able to track your project. To delete the directory use `sudo rm -r .git`. When you initialize git on a directory, nothing is tracked yet at this point. You need to commit existing files to git:
```
$ git add *
$ git add LICENSE
$ git commit -m 'Initial Project Version'
```
also `git status` can be used to show you the status of the commits to git. It also shows the branch you already are in, and untracked files.
The `git add filename.ext` changes the level of the file to staging area. You can also add a directory using the `git add directory` or `git add dir/filename.ext`. You can also add several files using `git add '*.ext'`. And the `git commit` takes a snapshot of the files on staging area.
You can use `git status` after executing each command so that you can see how that command changes the status of the file.
Also, the `git log` command shows the commit details, including the generated hash code, author, date of commit, and the commit message.
## Cloning an existing repository
Using the HTTPS URL of the you can clone a repository using `git clone <url>` you can clone a remote repository on your local directory.
## Recording Changes to the Repository
File on your git repository can be either tracked or untracked. Tracked ones were in the previous snapshots and they can be either unmodifies, modified or staged. At first all files are untracked until you initialize git. Then all files are tracked and unmodified. Once you change files they are represented as modified files. Then you might stage these files to take a snapshot of them and the cycle coes on. Only untracked and modified files are shown on `git status`
[](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/lifecycle.png)
The `git status` command shows the states of the files. For a summarized version of the status of the file use `git status -s`
[](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/areas.png)
While commitinf the changes to git to take a snapshot of them on .git directory, you can add a message to be stored with your commit.
You can either do commitusing `git commit -m "commit message"` or type the `git commit` in the command line it opens a commit edit file on your default terminal. You can add your commit message on the top of the file. You might include a title and a description of what you are adding on your commit.
#### README.md
usually git repo's has a README.md which contains some explanations about the project and repositories.
 