# Pushing to the Remote
To add your changes to the remote repository. You may use `git push`. The first time that you are using this command line, in case you merged the remote repository with local without clonning it, you will get an error. The error indicates that no branch in the remote repository is connected to the branch in the local repository.
```
$ git push
fatal: The current branch main has no upstream branch.
To push the current branch and set the remote as upstream, use
    git push --set-upstream origin main
```
You might also use `git push origin main` which means to push the changes to the remote named `origin` and the branch named `main`.
Whenever you commit some changes to your local repository, you can use the `git push origin main` to update your remote repository. Using `git push --set-upstream origin main` you have set your default remote and branch.
Note that the history of your commits is also available from github itself.
To update your local repo with the remote repo, you may pull to the local. However, you first need to understand merging.
## Inspecting a Remote
To get more information about your remote repository you can use `git show [remote-name]`. To find the remote name you might use `git remote` or `git remote -v`:
```
$ git remote -v
origin	https://github.com/aseresti/python-tutorials.git (fetch)
origin	https://github.com/aseresti/python-tutorials.git (push)
$ git remote show origin
* remote origin
  Fetch URL: https://github.com/aseresti/python-tutorials.git
  Push  URL: https://github.com/aseresti/python-tutorials.git
  HEAD branch: main
  Remote branch:
    main tracked
  Local branch configured for 'git pull':
    main merges with remote main
  Local ref configured for 'git push':
    main pushes to main (up to date)
```
## Removing or Renaming a Remote
We have already covered removing a repo using `git remote remove [remote-name]`. You can add the remote back using `git remote add [remote-name] <url>`.
To rename your remote use `git remote rename [old-name] [new name]`.