# Remote Branches
Should you use the `git branch -a`, you can see the remote branches along with your local branches. Also you can use `git log --oneline --graph` to see if the remote main branch has tracked the local main branch as well.
```bash
$ git log --oneline --graph
* 847ce41 (HEAD -> main, origin/main, origin/HEAD) Add branching workflow markdown file
* 5a4b6ff Add branch management markdown
* acd231e Add merging branches screenchots
* 9fda3de update merging branches
*   c622d4f Resolved conflict in merging branches
|\  
| * f6c91ea testing merging of two branches while working on a single file
* | 8bbac23 Testing merging two branches working on one file
|/  
*   3f8f802 Merge branch 'iss53' into main
|\  
| * f98f1a6 (origin/iss53) update testing_merging python file
| * 60140db update testing_merging python file
| * ea7eefe Add testing merging python file
* | 71792a7 Add Merging Branches md file
|/  
* bf0b846 Add Git Branching
* 7e12e0d Add Git Aliases Markdown File
* 36b990f Add images
* c186303 Update tagging.md
* 85c21e8 Update tagging.md
* 43679d3 Update tagging.md
```
`origin` is the name of your remote named by github. Yoy may have more than one remote repository like in the case if two persons push their commit to the repository at the same time. `git remote -v` shows the existed remote repositories. `git fetch origin` or `git fetch --all` shows the changes in the remote repository from the last time you commited into that. It communicates the commits only and it is safe. On the other hand, `git pull -u origin main` applies all of the changes on your local repository. It communicates the data and codes in each new commits.
## Tracking a Remote Branch on Local Repo
Now, let's imagine that a branch is existed on your remote repository, while it is not existed on your local one. In this case you can use `git checkout -b [name_of_local_branch] origin/[name_of_remote_repo]`
This changes `Head` pointer to the new local branch. Because usually we prefer to use the same name for the local branch as the name of the remote branch, there is a shortcut for that as well: `git checkout --track origin/[name_of_remote_branch]`.
## Deleting a Remote Branch
You can either delete the remote branch manually on the github UI or use this command: `git push origin --delete [remote_branch_name]`. Using the same method you can delete the remote tags as well.