# Rebasing Branches
Sometimes when you work on the huge public projects, it might happen that you contribute to the project through a new branch. Meanwhile that you are working on your own branch, the main branch might go ahead with so many commits. In this situation merging to the main branch causes a lot of conflicts. Therefore, you might want to re-base your current to the last commit made on the repository. This way you solve the conflicts during the rebase and the person who do the merge through a pull request will not face any conflicts. Rebase changes the starting point of the branch-out.
[Rebasing](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/basic-rebase-3.png)
At the end there is not a difference between merging and resolve the conflicts, or rebasing and merging; but the history of the git commits are going to be easy.
To do the rebase first you need to `checkout` to your branch and use `git rebase main`. As a result, some conflicts will appear on the files that you worked on. After you resolved the conflicts and `add` the files to the staging area. Then, you need to use: `git rebase --continue` to continue with the rebasing. The you can `merge` the main branch with this branch in a fastforward process.
## Rebase vs. Merge
Now, the question is that when we should rebase or merge to branches. If you check the git graph or `git log` you can see that after rebasing, the history of the commits is changed. If anyone else is working on the last commit then rebasing and merging to the last commit might ruin their work. From this perspective, merging saves the commit history untackt.
From another perspective, you might do a lot of un-related commits when you commit often. Rebasing gets rid off those unnecassary commits and leaves the history clean.